.verb.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Picomatch</h1>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://npmjs.org/package/picomatch">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/picomatch.svg" alt="version" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://travis-ci.org/micromatch/picomatch">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/travis/micromatch/picomatch.svg" alt="travis" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://npmjs.org/package/picomatch">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/picomatch.svg" alt="downloads" />
  </a>
</p>

<br>
<br>

<p align="center">
<strong>Blazing fast and accurate glob matcher written in JavaScript.</strong></br>
<em>No dependencies and full support for standard and extended Bash glob features, including braces, extglobs, POSIX brackets, and regular expressions.</em>
</p>

<br>
<br>

## Why picomatch?

- **Lightweight** - No dependencies
- **Minimal** - Tiny API surface. Main export is a function that takes a glob pattern and returns a matcher function.
- **Fast** - Loads in about 2ms (that's several times faster than a [single frame of a HD movie](http://www.endmemo.com/sconvert/framespersecondframespermillisecond.php) at 60fps)
- **Performant** - Optional precompiling to speed up repeat matching (like when watching files)
- **Accurate matching** - Using wildcards (`*` and `?`), globstars (`**`) for nested directories, [advanced globbing](#advanced-globbing) with extglobs, braces, and POSIX brackets, and support for escaping special characters with `\` or quotes.
- **Well tested** - Thousands of unit tests

See the [feature comparison](#feature-comparison) to other libraries.

<br>
<br>

## Install

Install with [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/):

```sh
$ npm install --save picomatch
```

<br>
<br>


## Usage

The main export is a function that takes a glob pattern and an options object and returns a function for matching strings.

```js
const pm = require('{%= name %}');
const isMatch = pm('*.js');

console.log(isMatch('abcd')); //=> false
console.log(isMatch('a.js')); //=> true
console.log(isMatch('a.md')); //=> false
console.log(isMatch('a/b.js')); //=> false
```

<br>
<br>

## Options

| **Option** | **Type** | **Default value** | **Description** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `bash`           | `boolean`      | `false`     | Follow bash matching rules more strictly - disallows backslashes as escape characters, and treats single stars as globstars (`**`). |
| `dot`            | `boolean`      | `false`     | Enable dotfile matching. By default, dotfiles are ignored unless a `.` is explicitly defined in the pattern, or `options.dot` is true |
| `expandBrace`    | `function`     | `undefined` | Function to be called on brace patterns as an alternative to the built-in functionality. The function receives the entire brace pattern including the enclosing braces as its only argument, and it must return a string to be used in the generated regex. |
| `expandRange`    | `function`     | `undefined` | Custom function for expanding ranges in brace patterns, such as `{a..z}`. The function receives the range values as two arguments, and it must return a string to be used in the generated regex. It's recommended that returned strings be wrapped in parentheses. This option is overridden by the `expandBrace` option. |
| `failglob`       | `boolean`      | `false`     | Throws an error if no matches are found. Based on the bash option of the same name. |
| `flags`          | `boolean`      | `undefined` | Regex flags to use in the generated regex. If defined, the `nocase` option will be overridden. |
| `format`         | `function`     | `undefined` | Custom function for formatting the returned string. This is useful for removing leading slashes, converting Windows paths to Posix paths, etc. |
| `ignore`         | `array|string` | `undefined` | One or more glob patterns for excluding strings that should not be matched from the result. |
| `keepQuotes`     | `boolean`      | `false`     | Retain quotes in the generated regex, since quotes may also be used as an alternative to backslashes.  |
| `lookbehinds`    | `boolean`      | `true`      | Support regex positive and negative lookbehinds. Note that you must be using Node 8.1.10 or higher to enable regex lookbehinds. |
| `matchBase`      | `boolean`      | `false`     | If set, then patterns without slashes will be matched against the basename of the path if it contains slashes.  For example, `a?b` would match the path `/xyz/123/acb`, but not `/xyz/acb/123`. |
| `maxLength`      | `boolean`      | `65536`     | Limit the max length of the input string. An error is thrown if the input string is longer than this value. |
| `nobrace`        | `boolean`      | `false`     | Disabled brace matching. Thus, `{a,b}` and `{1..3}` would be treated as literals. |
| `nocase`         | `boolean`      | `false`     | Make matching case-insensitive. Equivalent to the regex `i` flag. Note that this option is overridden by the `flags` option. |
| `nodupes`        | `boolean`      | `true`      | Deprecated, use `nounique` instead. This option will be removed in a future major release. By default duplicates are removed. Disable uniquification by setting this option to false. |
| `noextglob`      | `boolean`      | `false`     | Disable support for matching with extglobs (like `+(a|b)`) |
| `noglobstar`     | `boolean`      | `false`     | Disable support for matching nested directories with globstars (`**`) |
| `nonegate`       | `boolean`      | `false`     | Disable support for negating with leading `!` |
| `noquantifiers`  | `boolean`      | `false`     | Disable support for regex quantifiers (like `a{1,2}`) and treat them as brace patterns to be expanded. |
| [onMatch](#optionsonMatch) | `function` | `undefined` | Function to be called on successful matches. |
| `posix`          | `boolean`      | `false`     | Support POSX character classes ("posix brackets"). |
| `posixSlashes`   | `boolean`      | `undefined` | Convert all slashes in file paths to forward slashes. This does not convert slashes in the glob pattern itself |
| `prepend`        | `boolean`      | `undefined` | String to prepend to the generated regex used for matching. |
| `strictBrackets` | `boolean`      | `undefined` | Throw an error if brackets, braces, or parens are imbalanced. |
| `strictSlashes`  | `boolean`      | `undefined` | Strictly enforce leading and trailing slashes. |
| `unescape`       | `boolean`      | `undefined` | Remove backslashes preceding escaped characters in the generated regular expression. By default, backslashes are retained. |

### options.onMatch
### options.onIgnored



```js
const options = () => {
  return {
    matches: new Set(),
    format: str => str.replace(/^\.\//, ''),
    onMatch({ pattern, regex, input, value }, matches) {
      if (value.length > 2 && (value.startsWith('./') || value.startsWith('.\\'))) {
        value = value.slice(2);
      }
      matches.add(value);
    }
  };
};
```

<br>
<br>

# Globbing features

- Basic globbing (Wildcard matching)
- Advanced globbing (extglobs, posix brackets, brace matching)

## Basic globbing 

| **Character** | **Description** | 
| --- | --- | 
| `*` | Matches any character zero or more times, excluding path separators. Does _not match_ path separators or hidden files or directories ("dotfiles"), unless explicitly enabled by setting the `dot` option to `true`. | 
| `**` | Matches any character zero or more times, including path separators. Note that `**` will only match path separators (`/`, and `\\` on Windows) when they are the only characters in a path segment. Thus, `foo**/bar` is equivalent to `foo*/bar`, and `foo/a**b/bar` is equivalent to `foo/a*b/bar`, and _more than two_ consecutive stars in a glob path segment are regarded as _a single star_. Thus, `foo/***/bar` is equivalent to `foo/*/bar`. | 
| `?` | Matches any character excluding path separators one time. Does _not match_ path separators or leading dots.  | 
| `[abc]` | Matches any characters inside the brackets. For example, `[abc]` would match the characters `a`, `b` or `c`, and nothing else. | 

### Matching behavior vs. Bash

Picomatch's matching features and expected results in unit tests are based on Bash's unit tests and the Bash 4.3 specification, with the following exceptions:

- Bash will match `foo/bar/baz` with `*`. Picomatch only matches nested directories with `**`.
- Bash greedily matches with negated extglobs. For example, Bash 4.3 says that `!(foo)*` should match `foo` and `foobar`, since the trailing `*` bracktracks to match the preceding pattern. This is very memory-inefficient, and IMHO, also incorrect. Picomatch would return `false ` for both `foo` and `foobar`.

<br>
<br>

## Advanced globbing

- extglobs (todo)
- POSIX brackets
- brace expansion (todo)
- regular expressions (todo)


### POSIX brackets

POSIX classes are disabled by default. Enable this feature by setting the `posix` option to true.

**Enable POSIX bracket support**

```js
console.log(pm.makeRe('[[:word:]]+', { posix: true }));
//=> /^(?:(?=.)[A-Za-z0-9_]+\/?)$/
```

**Supported POSIX classes**

The following named POSIX bracket expressions are supported:

- `[:alnum:]` - Alphanumeric characters, equ `[a-zA-Z0-9]`
- `[:alpha:]` - Alphabetical characters, equivalent to `[a-zA-Z]`.
- `[:ascii:]` - ASCII characters, equivalent to `[\\x00-\\x7F]`.
- `[:blank:]` - Space and tab characters, equivalent to `[ \\t]`.
- `[:cntrl:]` - Control characters, equivalent to `[\\x00-\\x1F\\x7F]`.
- `[:digit:]` - Numerical digits, equivalent to `[0-9]`.
- `[:graph:]` - Graph characters, equivalent to `[\\x21-\\x7E]`.
- `[:lower:]` - Lowercase letters, equivalent to `[a-z]`.
- `[:print:]` - Print characters, equivalent to `[\\x20-\\x7E ]`.
- `[:punct:]` - Punctuation and symbols, equivalent to ``[\\-!"#$%&\'()\\*+,./:;<=>?@[\\]^_`{|}~]``.
- `[:space:]` - Extended space characters, equivalent to `[ \\t\\r\\n\\v\\f]`.
- `[:upper:]` - Uppercase letters, equivalent to `[A-Z]`.
- `[:word:]` -  Word characters (letters, numbers and underscores), equivalent to `[A-Za-z0-9_]`.
- `[:xdigit:]` - Hexadecimal digits, equivalent to `[A-Fa-f0-9]`.


See the [Bash Reference Manual](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Pattern-Matching.html) for more information.

## Matching special characters as literals

If you wish to match the following special characters in a filepath, and you want to use these characters in your glob pattern, they must be escaped with backslashes or quotes:

**Special Characters**

Some characters that are used for matching in regular expressions are also regarded as valid file path characters on some platforms. 

To match any of the following characters as literals: `$^*+?()[]{}|` or a leading `!`, you must escape the character with a backslash, or wrap a sequence of characters in quotes.

Examples:

```js
console.log(pm.makeRe('foo/bar \\(1\\)'));
console.log(pm.makeRe('foo/bar \\(1\\)'));
```

<br>
<br>

## Library Comparisons

Comparison to other libraries.

### Feature comparison

The following table shows which features are supported by [minimatch][], [micromatch][], [picomatch][], [nanomatch][], [extglob][], [braces][], and [expand-brackets][].

| **Feature** | `minimatch` | `micromatch` | `picomatch` | `nanomatch` | `extglob` | `braces` | `expand-brackets` |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| wildcard matching (`*?+`) | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | - | - | - |
| advancing globbing     | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | - | - | - | - |
| brace _matching_       | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | - | - | ✔ | - |
| brace _expansion_      | ✔ | ✔ | - | - | - | ✔ | - |
| extglobs               | partial | ✔ | ✔ | - | ✔ | - | - |
| posix brackets         | - | ✔ | ✔ | - | - | - | ✔ |
| regular expression syntax | - | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | - | ✔ |
| file system operations | - | - | - | - | - | - | - |


<br>
<br>

## Performance comparison

### Load time

```
minimatch: 4.230ms
picomatch: 2.123ms
```

### First match

Time it takes to return the first match, including `require()` time:

```js
console.log(require('minimatch').makeRe('**/*').test('foo/bar/baz/qux.js'));
// 9.275ms
console.log(require('picomatch').makeRe('**/*').test('foo/bar/baz/qux.js'));
// 7.429ms
```

<br>
<br>


## Philosophies

The goal of this library is to be blazing fast, without compromising on accuracy. 

**Accuracy**

The number one of goal of this libary is accuracy. However, it's not unusual for different glob implementations to have different rules for matching behavior, even with simple wildcard matching. It gets increasingly more complicated when combinations of different features are combined, like when extglobs are combined with globstars, braces, slashes, and so on: `!(**/{a,b,*/c})`.

Thus, given that there is no cannonical glob specification to use as a single source of truth when differences of opinion arise regarding behavior, sometimes we have to implement our best judgement and rely on feedback from users to make improvements. 

**Performance**

Although this library performs well in benchmarks, and in most cases it's faster than other popular libraries we benchmarked against, we will always choose accuracy over performance. It's not helpful to anyone if our library is faster at returning the wrong answer.

<br>
<br>


## About

<details>
<summary><strong>Contributing</strong></summary>

Pull requests and stars are always welcome. For bugs and feature requests, [please create an issue](../../issues/new).

Please read the [contributing guide](.github/contributing.md) for advice on opening issues, pull requests, and coding standards.

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Running Tests</strong></summary>

Running and reviewing unit tests is a great way to get familiarized with a library and its API. You can install dependencies and run tests with the following command:

```sh
$ npm install && npm test
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Building docs</strong></summary>

_(This project's readme.md is generated by [verb](https://github.com/verbose/verb-generate-readme), please don't edit the readme directly. Any changes to the readme must be made in the [.verb.md](.verb.md) readme template.)_

To generate the readme, run the following command:

```sh
$ npm install -g verbose/verb#dev verb-generate-readme && verb
```

</details>

### Author

**Jon Schlinkert**

* [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/jonschlinkert)
* [Twitter Profile](https://twitter.com/jonschlinkert)
* [LinkedIn Profile](https://linkedin.com/in/jonschlinkert)

### License

Copyright © 2018, [Jon Schlinkert](https://github.com/jonschlinkert).
Released under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

[dotfiles]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hidden_file_and_hidden_directory

Commit message:

use process.env
to disable caching in tests, to ensure that caching is not used on any assertions.

.verb.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Picomatch</h1>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://npmjs.org/package/picomatch">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/picomatch.svg" alt="version" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://travis-ci.org/micromatch/picomatch">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/travis/micromatch/picomatch.svg" alt="travis" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://npmjs.org/package/picomatch">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/picomatch.svg" alt="downloads" />
  </a>
</p>

<br>
<br>

<p align="center">
<strong>Blazing fast and accurate glob matcher written in JavaScript.</strong></br>
<em>No dependencies and full support for standard and extended Bash glob features, including braces, extglobs, POSIX brackets, and regular expressions.</em>
</p>

<br>
<br>

## Why picomatch?

- **Lightweight** - No dependencies
- **Minimal** - Tiny API surface. Main export is a function that takes a glob pattern and returns a matcher function.
- **Fast** - Loads in about 2ms (that's several times faster than a [single frame of a HD movie](http://www.endmemo.com/sconvert/framespersecondframespermillisecond.php) at 60fps)
- **Performant** - Optional precompiling to speed up repeat matching (like when watching files)
- **Accurate matching** - Using wildcards (`*` and `?`), globstars (`**`) for nested directories, [advanced globbing](#advanced-globbing) with extglobs, braces, and POSIX brackets, and support for escaping special characters with `\` or quotes.
- **Well tested** - Thousands of unit tests

See the [feature comparison](#feature-comparison) to other libraries.

<br>
<br>

## Install

Install with [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/):

```sh
$ npm install --save picomatch
```

<br>
<br>


## Usage

The main export is a function that takes a glob pattern and an options object and returns a function for matching strings.

```js
const pm = require('{%= name %}');
const isMatch = pm('*.js');

console.log(isMatch('abcd')); //=> false
console.log(isMatch('a.js')); //=> true
console.log(isMatch('a.md')); //=> false
console.log(isMatch('a/b.js')); //=> false
```

<br>
<br>

## Options

| **Option** | **Type** | **Default value** | **Description** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `bash`           | `boolean`      | `false`     | Follow bash matching rules more strictly - disallows backslashes as escape characters, and treats single stars as globstars (`**`). |
| `dot`            | `boolean`      | `false`     | Enable dotfile matching. By default, dotfiles are ignored unless a `.` is explicitly defined in the pattern, or `options.dot` is true |
| `expandBrace`    | `function`     | `undefined` | Function to be called on brace patterns as an alternative to the built-in functionality. The function receives the entire brace pattern including the enclosing braces as its only argument, and it must return a string to be used in the generated regex. |
| `expandRange`    | `function`     | `undefined` | Custom function for expanding ranges in brace patterns, such as `{a..z}`. The function receives the range values as two arguments, and it must return a string to be used in the generated regex. It's recommended that returned strings be wrapped in parentheses. This option is overridden by the `expandBrace` option. |
| `failglob`       | `boolean`      | `false`     | Throws an error if no matches are found. Based on the bash option of the same name. |
| `flags`          | `boolean`      | `undefined` | Regex flags to use in the generated regex. If defined, the `nocase` option will be overridden. |
| `format`         | `function`     | `undefined` | Custom function for formatting the returned string. This is useful for removing leading slashes, converting Windows paths to Posix paths, etc. |
| `ignore`         | `array|string` | `undefined` | One or more glob patterns for excluding strings that should not be matched from the result. |
| `keepQuotes`     | `boolean`      | `false`     | Retain quotes in the generated regex, since quotes may also be used as an alternative to backslashes.  |
| `lookbehinds`    | `boolean`      | `true`      | Support regex positive and negative lookbehinds. Note that you must be using Node 8.1.10 or higher to enable regex lookbehinds. |
| `matchBase`      | `boolean`      | `false`     | If set, then patterns without slashes will be matched against the basename of the path if it contains slashes.  For example, `a?b` would match the path `/xyz/123/acb`, but not `/xyz/acb/123`. |
| `maxLength`      | `boolean`      | `65536`     | Limit the max length of the input string. An error is thrown if the input string is longer than this value. |
| `nobrace`        | `boolean`      | `false`     | Disabled brace matching. Thus, `{a,b}` and `{1..3}` would be treated as literals. |
| `nocase`         | `boolean`      | `false`     | Make matching case-insensitive. Equivalent to the regex `i` flag. Note that this option is overridden by the `flags` option. |
| `nodupes`        | `boolean`      | `true`      | Deprecated, use `nounique` instead. This option will be removed in a future major release. By default duplicates are removed. Disable uniquification by setting this option to false. |
| `noextglob`      | `boolean`      | `false`     | Disable support for matching with extglobs (like `+(a|b)`) |
| `noglobstar`     | `boolean`      | `false`     | Disable support for matching nested directories with globstars (`**`) |
| `nonegate`       | `boolean`      | `false`     | Disable support for negating with leading `!` |
| `noquantifiers`  | `boolean`      | `false`     | Disable support for regex quantifiers (like `a{1,2}`) and treat them as brace patterns to be expanded. |
| [onMatch](#optionsonMatch) | `function` | `undefined` | Function to be called on successful matches. |
| `posix`          | `boolean`      | `false`     | Support POSX character classes ("posix brackets"). |
| `posixSlashes`   | `boolean`      | `undefined` | Convert all slashes in file paths to forward slashes. This does not convert slashes in the glob pattern itself |
| `prepend`        | `boolean`      | `undefined` | String to prepend to the generated regex used for matching. |
| `regex`          | `boolean`      | `false`     | Use regular expression behavior for stars that follow brackets and parentheses. |
| `strictBrackets` | `boolean`      | `undefined` | Throw an error if brackets, braces, or parens are imbalanced. |
| `strictSlashes`  | `boolean`      | `undefined` | Strictly enforce leading and trailing slashes. |
| `unescape`       | `boolean`      | `undefined` | Remove backslashes preceding escaped characters in the generated regular expression. By default, backslashes are retained. |

### options.onMatch
### options.onIgnored



```js
const options = () => {
  return {
    matches: new Set(),
    format: str => str.replace(/^\.\//, ''),
    onMatch({ pattern, regex, input, value }, matches) {
      if (value.length > 2 && (value.startsWith('./') || value.startsWith('.\\'))) {
        value = value.slice(2);
      }
      matches.add(value);
    }
  };
};
```

<br>
<br>

# Globbing features

- Basic globbing (Wildcard matching)
- Advanced globbing (extglobs, posix brackets, brace matching)

## Basic globbing 

| **Character** | **Description** | 
| --- | --- | 
| `*` | Matches any character zero or more times, excluding path separators. Does _not match_ path separators or hidden files or directories ("dotfiles"), unless explicitly enabled by setting the `dot` option to `true`. | 
| `**` | Matches any character zero or more times, including path separators. Note that `**` will only match path separators (`/`, and `\\` on Windows) when they are the only characters in a path segment. Thus, `foo**/bar` is equivalent to `foo*/bar`, and `foo/a**b/bar` is equivalent to `foo/a*b/bar`, and _more than two_ consecutive stars in a glob path segment are regarded as _a single star_. Thus, `foo/***/bar` is equivalent to `foo/*/bar`. | 
| `?` | Matches any character excluding path separators one time. Does _not match_ path separators or leading dots.  | 
| `[abc]` | Matches any characters inside the brackets. For example, `[abc]` would match the characters `a`, `b` or `c`, and nothing else. | 

### Matching behavior vs. Bash

Picomatch's matching features and expected results in unit tests are based on Bash's unit tests and the Bash 4.3 specification, with the following exceptions:

- Bash will match `foo/bar/baz` with `*`. Picomatch only matches nested directories with `**`.
- Bash greedily matches with negated extglobs. For example, Bash 4.3 says that `!(foo)*` should match `foo` and `foobar`, since the trailing `*` bracktracks to match the preceding pattern. This is very memory-inefficient, and IMHO, also incorrect. Picomatch would return `false ` for both `foo` and `foobar`.

<br>
<br>

## Advanced globbing

- extglobs (todo)
- POSIX brackets
- brace expansion (todo)
- regular expressions (todo)


### POSIX brackets

POSIX classes are disabled by default. Enable this feature by setting the `posix` option to true.

**Enable POSIX bracket support**

```js
console.log(pm.makeRe('[[:word:]]+', { posix: true }));
//=> /^(?:(?=.)[A-Za-z0-9_]+\/?)$/
```

**Supported POSIX classes**

The following named POSIX bracket expressions are supported:

- `[:alnum:]` - Alphanumeric characters, equ `[a-zA-Z0-9]`
- `[:alpha:]` - Alphabetical characters, equivalent to `[a-zA-Z]`.
- `[:ascii:]` - ASCII characters, equivalent to `[\\x00-\\x7F]`.
- `[:blank:]` - Space and tab characters, equivalent to `[ \\t]`.
- `[:cntrl:]` - Control characters, equivalent to `[\\x00-\\x1F\\x7F]`.
- `[:digit:]` - Numerical digits, equivalent to `[0-9]`.
- `[:graph:]` - Graph characters, equivalent to `[\\x21-\\x7E]`.
- `[:lower:]` - Lowercase letters, equivalent to `[a-z]`.
- `[:print:]` - Print characters, equivalent to `[\\x20-\\x7E ]`.
- `[:punct:]` - Punctuation and symbols, equivalent to ``[\\-!"#$%&\'()\\*+,./:;<=>?@[\\]^_`{|}~]``.
- `[:space:]` - Extended space characters, equivalent to `[ \\t\\r\\n\\v\\f]`.
- `[:upper:]` - Uppercase letters, equivalent to `[A-Z]`.
- `[:word:]` -  Word characters (letters, numbers and underscores), equivalent to `[A-Za-z0-9_]`.
- `[:xdigit:]` - Hexadecimal digits, equivalent to `[A-Fa-f0-9]`.


See the [Bash Reference Manual](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Pattern-Matching.html) for more information.

## Matching special characters as literals

If you wish to match the following special characters in a filepath, and you want to use these characters in your glob pattern, they must be escaped with backslashes or quotes:

**Special Characters**

Some characters that are used for matching in regular expressions are also regarded as valid file path characters on some platforms. 

To match any of the following characters as literals: `$^*+?()[]{}|` or a leading `!`, you must escape the character with a backslash, or wrap a sequence of characters in quotes.

Examples:

```js
console.log(pm.makeRe('foo/bar \\(1\\)'));
console.log(pm.makeRe('foo/bar \\(1\\)'));
```

<br>
<br>

## Library Comparisons

Comparison to other libraries.

### Feature comparison

The following table shows which features are supported by [minimatch][], [micromatch][], [picomatch][], [nanomatch][], [extglob][], [braces][], and [expand-brackets][].

| **Feature** | `minimatch` | `micromatch` | `picomatch` | `nanomatch` | `extglob` | `braces` | `expand-brackets` |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| wildcard matching (`*?+`) | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | - | - | - |
| advancing globbing     | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | - | - | - | - |
| brace _matching_       | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | - | - | ✔ | - |
| brace _expansion_      | ✔ | ✔ | - | - | - | ✔ | - |
| extglobs               | partial | ✔ | ✔ | - | ✔ | - | - |
| posix brackets         | - | ✔ | ✔ | - | - | - | ✔ |
| regular expression syntax | - | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | - | ✔ |
| file system operations | - | - | - | - | - | - | - |


<br>
<br>

## Performance comparison

### Load time

```
minimatch: 4.230ms
picomatch: 2.123ms
```

### First match

Time it takes to return the first match, including `require()` time:

```js
console.log(require('minimatch').makeRe('**/*').test('foo/bar/baz/qux.js'));
// 9.275ms
console.log(require('picomatch').makeRe('**/*').test('foo/bar/baz/qux.js'));
// 7.429ms
```

<br>
<br>


## Philosophies

The goal of this library is to be blazing fast, without compromising on accuracy. 

**Accuracy**

The number one of goal of this libary is accuracy. However, it's not unusual for different glob implementations to have different rules for matching behavior, even with simple wildcard matching. It gets increasingly more complicated when combinations of different features are combined, like when extglobs are combined with globstars, braces, slashes, and so on: `!(**/{a,b,*/c})`.

Thus, given that there is no cannonical glob specification to use as a single source of truth when differences of opinion arise regarding behavior, sometimes we have to implement our best judgement and rely on feedback from users to make improvements. 

**Performance**

Although this library performs well in benchmarks, and in most cases it's faster than other popular libraries we benchmarked against, we will always choose accuracy over performance. It's not helpful to anyone if our library is faster at returning the wrong answer.

<br>
<br>


## About

<details>
<summary><strong>Contributing</strong></summary>

Pull requests and stars are always welcome. For bugs and feature requests, [please create an issue](../../issues/new).

Please read the [contributing guide](.github/contributing.md) for advice on opening issues, pull requests, and coding standards.

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Running Tests</strong></summary>

Running and reviewing unit tests is a great way to get familiarized with a library and its API. You can install dependencies and run tests with the following command:

```sh
$ npm install && npm test
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Building docs</strong></summary>

_(This project's readme.md is generated by [verb](https://github.com/verbose/verb-generate-readme), please don't edit the readme directly. Any changes to the readme must be made in the [.verb.md](.verb.md) readme template.)_

To generate the readme, run the following command:

```sh
$ npm install -g verbose/verb#dev verb-generate-readme && verb
```

</details>

### Author

**Jon Schlinkert**

* [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/jonschlinkert)
* [Twitter Profile](https://twitter.com/jonschlinkert)
* [LinkedIn Profile](https://linkedin.com/in/jonschlinkert)

### License

Copyright © 2018, [Jon Schlinkert](https://github.com/jonschlinkert).
Released under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

[dotfiles]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hidden_file_and_hidden_directory
